---
title: April 2016
date: 2016-04-30 09:35:00 -04:00
---

This month marks the 1-year anniversary of my recommended reading newsletter. I hope I've shared a few good books along the way, but if not, I am always open to suggestions! Just let me know by replying to this email.

It's been a hectic few weeks; from a trip to Mexico to packing for my upcoming move to Phoenix. While I'm still working through Caro's epic *Years of Lyndon Johnson* (in preparation for the HBO adaptation of *All the Way* coming in May), I did manage to sneak in a few shorter books this month.

I hope you have a chance to check these out, and if so, let me know what you think!

**[When Breath Becomes Air](http://amzn.to/1WyLrRB)** by Paul Kalanithi

This book is one of the most moving books I’ve ever read. In a major role-reversal, Paul - a promising neurosurgeon/neuroscientist - was diagnosed with lung cancer at the age of 34. In addition to being a talented doctor, Paul was also a superb writer. This is a poignant memoir about life, death, and the mind, but it's a frightening one. I think that's part of the appeal.

**[Smarter Faster Better](http://amzn.to/1VZYqxb)** by Charles Duhigg  

There are superstars among us who seem to have more than 24 hours in a day. I don't mean the crazy people who shun sleep, or rely on stimulants, but the hyper-productive minority who seem to have a knack for balancing work and play. This book discusses the skills that allow them to achieve that balance, from better team work to an appreciation for the power of mental models. The chapter on the tragic crash of Air France 447 is worth the price alone.

**[A Powerful Mind: The Self-Education of George Washington](http://amzn.to/1WyLywp)** by Adrienne Harrison

Unlike most of his peers, George Washington didn't have a classical education. Throughout his life, he was placed in situations he felt were above his station. So how did he acquire the knowledge he needed to succeed? Harrison argues that it was through persistent, life-long self-education via practical (and at the time cutting edge) books. Washington rarely let anyone into his library at Mt. Vernon, but Harrison opens the door just enough for us to glimpse what it must have been like inside. This book is a nice twist on the presidential biography.

Lake Placid had 4 inches of snow last week, but soon I'll be trading the cold upstate weather for the dry desert heat of Arizona. Summer is nearly here! Which books are you planning to read this summer? Any upcoming releases you're excited about? Let me know, and I'll add them to my list. Until next month, happy reading!


Kyle
