---
title: May 2015
date: 2015-05-31 09:34:00 -04:00
---

May was a busy month, but I still managed to read some terrific books. If like me, you're finding it hard to make time to read, here's a quick tip. Choose a manageable number of pages to read each day and turn it into a daily habit. 20 pages is a good place to start, and it adds up to 36 books a year. That's a lot of reading, and it's a great investment. 

If there was a loose theme to my reading this month, it's changing the world. From the invention of the airplane to the emergence of Sapiens, these books demonstrate our species' tendency to push beyond boundaries and shape the world according to our desires -- for better and worse.

**[The Wright Brothers](http://amzn.to/1KGhnik)** by *David McCullough*

I think McCullough is one of the best popular history writers of all time. His biography of [John Adams](http://amzn.to/1Fnn5Pi) is incredible, and it formed the basis of the equally impressive HBO series starring Paul Giamatti. The Wright Brothers is the latest in a long list of bestsellers for the two-time ulitzer winner. It's a vivid account of the birth of powered flight -- not a history of airplanes, but of the two brilliant bicycle mechanics who willed them into existence through sheer intellect and unwavering commitment. If you fly a lot like I do, you'll appreciate this book, even more so the next time you're [sitting in a chair in the sky](https://youtu.be/uEY58fiSK8E?t=2m) browsing the web at 36,000 feet.

**[How Adam Smith Can Change Your Life](http://amzn.to/1EIXXB2)** by *Russ Roberts*

I'd heard good things about this book, but it wasn't until I picked it up in a bookstore and read the introduction that I decided to buy it. Roberts is a popular economist (check out his [EconTalk podcast](http://www.econtalk.org/)), but he didn't read The Wealth of Nations or the long-neglected Theory of Moral Sentiments until late in his career. He was so impressed by the latter that he decided to write this book. With chapter titles like 'How to be Happy', 'How to be Good', and 'How to Make the World a Better Place',  it's a quick and enjoyable introduction to a forgotten classic. Whether you decide to read The Theory of Moral Sentiments or not, definitely check this book out. 

**[Sapiens](http://amzn.to/1KwxjQO)** by *Yuval Noah Harari*

100,000 years ago there were at least 6 species of humans on the planet, yet today we are the sole survivors. Why? That's the central question of Harari's book, billed as a brief history of humankind. It's a whirlwind tour through the whole of our history, focusing on our major revolutions: cognitive, agricultural, and scientific. Sapiens will forever alter your opinion of what happens when humans arrive in an environment (in short, we destroy it), and it concludes with a speculative look into the future of our species. This is a stunning work and I'm excited to read more from Harari in the future. 

**[Zero to One](http://amzn.to/1KGhRVC)** by *Peter Theil*

Peter Theil - cofounder of PayPal and Palantir, President of Clarium Capitol, and first outside investor in Facebook - knows a thing or two about starting companies. In Zero to One he argues that most businesses take the world from 1 to N. They add a little value to a familiar idea. As someone who was once approached to build "Facebook for pets", I can attest to this. But occasionally a company creates something completely new and takes the world from 0 to 1. As Theil says in the introduction, "the next Larry Page and Sergei Brin won't make a search engine. And the next Mark Zuckerberg won't create a social network". We can do better than a [Yo! app](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yo_(app)), and this book is a call to do so.  

I just celebrated my 34th(!) birthday, and I received a ton of books that I can't wait to read and share with you. If you want to say hi or tell me about a book you enjoyed, please do! I'd love to hear from you, and all you have to do is reply to this email.

You're awesome. Until next month, 

Kyle
